To create java app:
mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=luffy -DartifactId=AJGTproject -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-webapp -DarchetypeVersion=1.4 

Step 1: Set Up Your Git Repository
Create a simple Java web application (or use an existing one) and push it to a Git repository, such as GitHub.

In this project, we’ll add a Jenkins pipeline configuration file, called Jenkinsfile, to the repository. This file will contain the steps Jenkins should follow to build and deploy the application.
so create a jenkinsfile

This Jenkinsfile defines three main steps:

Checkout: Pulls the code from the Git repository.
Build: Builds the Java application using Maven.
Deploy to Tomcat using Ansible: Calls an Ansible playbook to deploy the application to Tomcat.

Step 2: Set Up Jenkins
Install Plugins:

Install the Git plugin to enable Jenkins to pull code from Git repositories.
Install Ansible and the Ansible plugin in Jenkins to run Ansible playbooks.
Configure SSH Key for Ansible:

In Jenkins, go to Manage Jenkins > Manage Credentials.
Add an SSH key (or other credentials) that Ansible will use to connect to the Tomcat server.
Create a Pipeline Job in Jenkins:

Go to Jenkins Dashboard > New Item > Pipeline.
Configure the pipeline to use the Jenkinsfile in your Git repository.

Step 3: Set Up Ansible for Deployment
Now, create an Ansible playbook (deploy.yml) to automate deployment tasks:

Configure deploy.yml to:

Install Java and Tomcat (if they aren’t already installed).
Deploy the application WAR file to the Tomcat server.

Step 4: Create the Ansible Inventory File
Define the server where Tomcat is running in the Ansible inventory file (inventory.ini):

ini
Copy code
# inventory.ini
[tomcat_server]
192.168.1.100 ansible_user=your_ssh_user
Step 5: Run the Pipeline in Jenkins
Execute the Job:

Go to your Jenkins pipeline job and click Build Now to start the pipeline.
Jenkins will follow the steps defined in the Jenkinsfile to pull, build, and deploy your application.
Monitor Deployment:

After the pipeline completes, check the application running on the Tomcat server at http://<your-server-ip>:8080/your-app-context.

Summary of the Flow
Git: Stores the source code and version history.
Jenkins: Automates the build and deployment pipeline.
Ansible: Automates configuration and deployment to Tomcat.
Tomcat: Hosts the application.
This setup helps you automate the development pipeline, from code updates in Git to deployment on Tomcat, ensuring consistency and efficiency.
